[docs]: update building modules section to reflect ADR31 (#7702)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/building-modules/messages-and-queries.md

# Messages and Queries

`Msg`s and `Queries` are the two primary objects handled by modules. Most of the core components defined in a module, like `handler`s, `keeper`s and `querier`s, exist to process `message`s and `queries`. {synopsis}

## Pre-requisite Readings

- [Introduction to SDK Modules](./intro.md) {prereq}

## Messages

`Msg`s are objects whose end-goal is to trigger state-transitions. They are wrapped in [transactions](../core/transactions.md), which may contain one or multiple of them. 

When a transaction is relayed from the underlying consensus engine to the SDK application, it is first decoded by [`baseapp`](../core/baseapp.md). Then, each `message` contained in the transaction is extracted and routed to the appropriate module via `baseapp`'s `router` so that it can be processed by the module's [`handler`](./handler.md). For a more detailed explanation of the lifecycle of a transaction, click [here](../basics/tx-lifecycle.md).

### `Msg` Services

> Starting from v0.40, defining Protobuf `Msg` services is the recommended way to handle messages. A `Msg` service should be created per module, typically in `tx.proto` (see more info about [conventions and naming](../core/encoding.md#faq)). This service lists a module messages as Protobuf service methods, starting with `rpc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v0.40, defining Protobuf `Msg` services is the recommended way to handle messages. A `Msg` protobuf service should be created per module, typically in `tx.proto` (see more info about [conventions and naming](../core/encoding.md#faq)). It must have a method for each message defined in the module.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from v0.40, defining Protobuf `Msg` services is the recommended way to handle messages. A `Msg` protobuf service should be created per module, typically in `tx.proto` (see more info about [conventions and naming](../core/encoding.md#faq)). It must have an RPC service method defined for each message in the module.
```

Defining such `Msg` services allow to specify return types as part of `Msg` response using the canonical `Msg...Response` names.

In addition, this generates client and server code.
`MsgServer` interface defines the server API for the `Msg` service and its implementation is described as part of the [`Msg` services](./msg-services.md) documentation.

A `RegisterMsgServer` method is also generated and should be used to register the module's `MsgServer`  request types with custom type URLs in `RegisterServices` method from the [`AppModule` interface](./module-manager.md#appmodule).

In order for clients (CLI and grpc-gateway) to have these URLs registered, the SDK provides the function `RegisterMsgServiceDesc(registry codectypes.InterfaceRegistry, sd *grpc.ServiceDesc)` that should be called inside module's [`RegisterInterfaces`](module-manager.md#appmodulebasic) method, using proto-generated `&_Msg_serviceDesc` as `*grpc.ServiceDesc` argument.
`RegisterInterfaces` should be called before `MsgServiceRouter` `RegisterService(sd *grpc.ServiceDesc, handler interface{})` so that all `Msg` types are already registered by then.

> ### Legacy `Msg`s

Author: ```suggestion
### Legacy Amino `Msg`s
```

# Messages and Queries

`Msg`s and `Queries` are the two primary objects handled by modules. Most of the core components defined in a module, like `Msg` services, `keeper`s and `Query` services, exist to process `message`s and `queries`. {synopsis}

## Pre-requisite Readings

- [Introduction to SDK Modules](./intro.md) {prereq}

## Messages

> `Msg`s are objects whose end-goal is to trigger state-transitions. They are wrapped in [transactions](../core/transactions.md), which may contain one or multiple of them. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Msg`s are objects whose end-goal is to trigger state-transitions. They are wrapped in [transactions](../core/transactions.md), which may contain one or more of them. 
```

> When a transaction is relayed from the underlying consensus engine to the SDK application, it is first decoded by [`baseapp`](../core/baseapp.md). Then, each `message` contained in the transaction is extracted and routed to the appropriate module via `baseapp`'s `msgServiceRouter` so that it can be processed by the module's [`Msg` service](./msg-services.md). For a more detailed explanation of the lifecycle of a transaction, click [here](../basics/tx-lifecycle.md).

Reviewer 3: We do use `message` and `Msg` interchangeably (in other sections too). Should we unify to `Msg` everywhere?

> When a transaction is relayed from the underlying consensus engine to the SDK application, it is first decoded by [`baseapp`](../core/baseapp.md). Then, each `message` contained in the transaction is extracted and routed to the appropriate module via `baseapp`'s `msgServiceRouter` so that it can be processed by the module's [`Msg` service](./msg-services.md). For a more detailed explanation of the lifecycle of a transaction, click [here](../basics/tx-lifecycle.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a transaction is relayed from the underlying consensus engine to the SDK application, it is first decoded by [`baseapp`](../core/baseapp.md). Then, each message contained in the transaction is extracted and routed to the appropriate module via `baseapp`'s `MsgServiceRouter` so that it can be processed by the module's [`Msg` service](./msg-services.md). For a more detailed explanation of the lifecycle of a transaction, click [here](../basics/tx-lifecycle.md).
```

### `Msg` Services

Starting from v0.40, defining Protobuf `Msg` services is the recommended way to handle messages. A `Msg` protobuf service should be created per module, typically in `tx.proto` (see more info about [conventions and naming](../core/encoding.md#faq)). It must have an RPC service method defined for each message in the module.

See an example of a `Msg` service definition from `x/bank` module:

> +++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.40.0-rc1/proto/cosmos/bank/v1beta1/tx.proto#L10-L17

Reviewer 2: Link to local

Reviewer 4: Just flagging- the docs are currently linking to github throughout the project. Maybe this should be done as a separate PR across the entire docs repo?

Author: Yeah if eventually we change it, that would more be appropriate to do that as a separate PR for the entire docs to keep things consistent. But maybe that's actually useful https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/7702#issuecomment-726576365?

For backwards compatibility with [legacy Amino `Msg`s](#legacy-amino-msgs), existing `Msg` types should be used as the request parameter for `service` definitions. Newer `Msg` types which only support `service` definitions should use the more canonical `Msg...Request` names.

`Msg` request types need to implement the `MsgRequest` interface which is a simplified version of the `Msg` interface described [below](#legacy-amino-msgs) with only `ValidateBasic()` and `GetSigners()` methods.

Defining such `Msg` services allow to specify return types as part of `Msg` response using the canonical `Msg...Response` names.

In addition, this generates client and server code.

> `MsgServer` interface defines the server API for the `Msg` service and its implementation is described as part of the [`Msg` services](./msg-services.md) documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The generated `MsgServer` interface defines the server API for the `Msg` service and its implementation is described as part of the [`Msg` services](./msg-services.md) documentation.
```

> A `RegisterMsgServer` method is also generated and should be used to register the module's `MsgServer`  request types with custom type URLs in `RegisterServices` method from the [`AppModule` interface](./module-manager.md#appmodule).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `RegisterMsgServer` method is also generated and should be used to register the module's `MsgServer` implementation in `RegisterServices` method from the [`AppModule` interface](./module-manager.md#appmodule).
```

> In order for clients (CLI and grpc-gateway) to have these URLs registered, the SDK provides the function `RegisterMsgServiceDesc(registry codectypes.InterfaceRegistry, sd *grpc.ServiceDesc)` that should be called inside module's [`RegisterInterfaces`](module-manager.md#appmodulebasic) method, using proto-generated `&_Msg_serviceDesc` as `*grpc.ServiceDesc` argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order for clients (CLI and grpc-gateway) to have these URLs registered, the SDK provides the function `RegisterMsgServiceDesc(registry codectypes.InterfaceRegistry, sd *grpc.ServiceDesc)` that should be called inside module's [`RegisterInterfaces`](module-manager.md#appmodulebasic) method, using the proto-generated `&_Msg_serviceDesc` as `*grpc.ServiceDesc` argument.
```

> `RegisterInterfaces` should be called before `MsgServiceRouter` `RegisterService(sd *grpc.ServiceDesc, handler interface{})` so that all `Msg` types are already registered by then.

Reviewer 2: I think we can omit this as it happens as part of the framework

### Legacy Amino `Msg`s

> This way of defining messages is deprecated and using [`Msg` services](#msg-services) should be prefered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This way of defining messages is deprecated and using [`Msg` services](#msg-services) is preferred.
```

> Legacy `Msg`s can be defined as protobuf messages. The `message`'s definition usually includes a list of parameters needed to process the message that will be provided by end-users when they want to create a new transaction containing said `message`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Legacy `Msg`s can be defined as protobuf messages. The messages definition usually includes a list of parameters needed to process the message that will be provided by end-users when they want to create a new transaction containing said message. 
```

# Messages and Queries

> `Msg`s and `Queries` are the two primary objects handled by modules. Most of the core components defined in a module, like `handler`s, `keeper`s and `querier`s, exist to process `message`s and `queries`. {synopsis}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`Msg`s and `Queries` are the two primary objects handled by modules. Most of the core components defined in a module, like `Msg` services, `keeper`s and `Query` services, exist to process `message`s and `queries`. {synopsis}
```

## Pre-requisite Readings

- [Introduction to SDK Modules](./intro.md) {prereq}

## Messages

`Msg`s are objects whose end-goal is to trigger state-transitions. They are wrapped in [transactions](../core/transactions.md), which may contain one or multiple of them. 

> When a transaction is relayed from the underlying consensus engine to the SDK application, it is first decoded by [`baseapp`](../core/baseapp.md). Then, each `message` contained in the transaction is extracted and routed to the appropriate module via `baseapp`'s `router` so that it can be processed by the module's [`handler`](./msg-services.md#handler-type). For a more detailed explanation of the lifecycle of a transaction, click [here](../basics/tx-lifecycle.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a transaction is relayed from the underlying consensus engine to the SDK application, it is first decoded by [`baseapp`](../core/baseapp.md). Then, each `message` contained in the transaction is extracted and routed to the appropriate module via `baseapp`'s `msgServiceRouter` so that it can be processed by the module's [`Msg` service](./msg-services.md). For a more detailed explanation of the lifecycle of a transaction, click [here](../basics/tx-lifecycle.md).
```

Defining such `Msg` services allow to specify return types as part of `Msg` response using the canonical `Msg...Response` names.

In addition, this generates client and server code.
`MsgServer` interface defines the server API for the `Msg` service and its implementation is described as part of the [`Msg` services](./msg-services.md) documentation.

A `RegisterMsgServer` method is also generated and should be used to register the module's `MsgServer`  request types with custom type URLs in `RegisterServices` method from the [`AppModule` interface](./module-manager.md#appmodule).

In order for clients (CLI and grpc-gateway) to have these URLs registered, the SDK provides the function `RegisterMsgServiceDesc(registry codectypes.InterfaceRegistry, sd *grpc.ServiceDesc)` that should be called inside module's [`RegisterInterfaces`](module-manager.md#appmodulebasic) method, using proto-generated `&_Msg_serviceDesc` as `*grpc.ServiceDesc` argument.
`RegisterInterfaces` should be called before `MsgServiceRouter` `RegisterService(sd *grpc.ServiceDesc, handler interface{})` so that all `Msg` types are already registered by then.

> ### Legacy Amino `Msg`s

Author: Should we just drop this section?

cc/ @amaurymartiny @robert-zaremba @clevinson @anilCSE @aaronc

This way of defining messages is deprecated and using [`Msg` services](#msg-services) should be prefered.

Legacy Amino `Msg`s can be defined as regular `struct`. The `message`'s definition usually includes a list of parameters needed to process the message that will be provided by end-users when they want to create a new transaction containing said `message`.

The `Msg` is typically accompanied by a standard constructor function, that is called from one of the [module's interface](./module-interfaces.md). `message`s also need to implement the [`Msg`] interface:

+++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/4a1b2fba43b1052ca162b3a1e0b6db6db9c26656/types/tx_msg.go#L10-L33

> It contains the following methods:

Reviewer 3: "extends `proto.Message`" is still true, right?

See an example implementation of a `message` from the `gov` module:

> +++ https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.40.0-rc1/x/gov/types/msgs.go#L77-L125

Reviewer 2: Ditto

As `proto.Message`s, generated `Response` types implement by default `String()` method of [`fmt.Stringer`](https://golang.org/pkg/fmt/#Stringer).

> A `RegisterQueryServer` method is also generated and should be used to register the module's query server in `RegisterServices` method from the [`AppModule` interface](./module-manager.md#appmodule).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `RegisterQueryServer` method is also generated and should be used to register the module's query server in the `RegisterServices` method from the [`AppModule` interface](./module-manager.md#appmodule).
```
